As we touched on in class, History serves as various different tools. 
It can either change how we understand a certain event, time period, group of people etc., or it can help us understand why those things happened or why these groups may have existed.
History can also serve as a rationale for why things are the way they are or why we have certain laws or rules in place throughout society. 
Historiography serves as a tool for understanding why we study history. 
It serves as tool for why history is the way that we have accepted it to be and what tools or sources do we use to validate that certain events and figures in history have happened the way that it has. 
Studying the philosophy of history adds another layer of that understanding. Philosophy of history takes the knowledge that we have attained about history and gives us the freedom to dissect it and give our own interpretation of the history that is presented in front of us. 
From personal experience, I always learned history from a textbook and was taught that it was accurate, and we were to accept that textbook and its’ contents as truth. 
We were never taught to challenge or question history until we maybe got to college. 
As we discussed in class, history textbooks and the way in which history is taught in schools, is controlled and maintained a certain way. 
This is so that a rational explanation can be given for why certain events happened or why certain things occurred the way that they did. 
But as we discussed, many historians or textbooks can have a certain agenda and distort history. 
I feel as though historiography and philosophy of history aide that dilemma in that, each ask students and writers of history to question the information that we already know about history. 
Why did it happen this way? Why have we accepted this as history? And more importantly, why is the history written in textbooks accepted as being the truth?
Historiography is useful outside of the academy in that it would make history seem more relevant to people who don’t necessarily like history in the first place. 
Rather than accepting what others have told them as truth, anyone outside of the academy would have a chance to understand history from a different perspective. 
Possibly a perspective that they can relate to more and be less intimidated by. 
